Custom Controller Example Page on Agones Website (#3725)
googleforgames/agones: site/content/en/docs/Examples/custom-controller.md

---
title: "Custom Controller for Agones Game Servers"
linkTitle: "Custom Controller"
date:
publishDate:
description: >
  This Custom Controller example shows how to create, deploy and run a Custom Kubernetes Controller for Agones that logs changes to GameServers and modifies their labels.
---

## Prerequisite

 To get started, ensure the following prerequisites are met:

  - You have a running Kubernetes cluster.
  
  - Agones is installed on your cluster. See [Agones guide](https://agones.dev/site/docs/installation/install-agones/).

>   - Example custom controller code is available {{< ghlink href="examples/custom-controller" >}}here{{< /ghlink >}}

Reviewer: Actually - also realised, assuming https://github.com/googleforgames/agones/pull/3725/files#r1548758608 works --- there is no prerequ to have the code locally!

But it is nice to look at it. Maybe:

```suggestion
 - (Optional) Review {{< ghlink href="examples/custom-controller" >}}example code{{< /ghlink >}} to see the details of this example.
```

... or something like that? Not sure I love the wording.

## Deploy the Custom Controller

For a quick deployment of the custom controller on your cluster, execute:

```bash

> kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml

Reviewer: Can we do this like we do https://agones.dev/site/docs/getting-started/create-fleet/#1-create-a-fleet ? (point to the public URL) rather than the local file?

```

When you run this command, it quickly sets up your controller by doing four things: 
 - Creating a service account for secure communication with Kubernetes
 - Defining a role with the right permissions to handle game servers and events
 - Linking this role to the account for broad access
 - Launching two controllers for reliability.

## Verify the Controller

> To ensure the custom controller is operational, execute the following command. You should see two instances of the controller actively running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure the custom controller is operational, execute the following command. You should see two instances of the controller actively running with the prefix `custom-controller`:
```

```bash
kubectl get pods -n agones-system

> ```

Reviewer: Can we add an example output please?

## Monitor the log events for the custom controller pod

To monitor the log events of the custom controller pod during the creation, modification, and deletion of game servers, use the following command:

```bash

> kubectl logs -f <custom-controller-pod> -n agones-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl logs -f deployments/custom-controller -n agones-system
```

You can grab all the logs for any pods behind a deployment ☝🏻 😄

```

> **Note**: If a custom controller runs into trouble with logging events, the backup controller will automatically assume the leadership role, ensuring uninterrupted logging of event details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If this controller fails for any reason, we've also implemented leader election such that the backup controller will automatically assume the leadership role, ensuring uninterrupted logging of event details.
```

> ## Deploy the Agones Fleet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy a Agones Fleet
```

> To apply the fleet configuration to your cluster, use the following command:

Reviewer: Can lift the create a fleet markdown from https://agones.dev/site/docs/getting-started/create-fleet/#1-create-a-fleet 

Then they don't need to worry about cloning the whole repository.

Author: Currently, I've copied the information from the `create a fleet` section. Would it be sufficient to include the link https://agones.dev/site/docs/getting-started/create-fleet/#1-create-a-fleet is enough?

something like:
```
## Create a Fleet

Please refer to the documentation on creating a fleet available at [this link](https://agones.dev/site/docs/getting-started/create-fleet/#1-create-a-fleet) for detailed information
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f examples/simple-game-server/fleet.yaml
```

When you run this command, it will:
- Specify that there should be 2 replicas of the Fleet.
- Specify that the Pods should have a container port named "default" with a value of 7654.
- Set the resource requests and limits for the container named `simple-game-server`.

> ## Create a GameServer Instance

Reviewer: We don't need to create a GameServer instance, or edit it - since GameServers change state naturally, so events will be logged, and the label will be applied as well.

So I think we can remove these sections.

Create a gameserver using below command. After this, you'll be able to see logs about the server being created.

```bash
kubectl create -f <your-gameserver.yaml>
```

## Edit the GameServer

To edit settings of your game server, use:

```bash
kubectl edit gameserver <simple-game-server-name> 
```

This will open an editor for you to make changes, and the modification will be reflected in log events.

## Delete the GameServer

To remove your game server and track its deletion in the log events, run the following command:

```bash
kubectl delete gameserver <simple-game-server-name>
```

## Cleaning Up

When you're done with the Agones fleet and the custom controller, it's a good practice to clean up the resources to prevent unnecessary resource consumption. Follow these steps to remove them:

### Remove the Fleet

To delete the Agones fleet you deployed, execute the following command. This will remove the fleet along with all the game server instances it manages:

```bash

> kubectl delete -f examples/simple-game-server/fleet.yaml

Reviewer: Assuming we can use the full remote URL above - we can replace this here and below in "Remove the Custom Controller".

---
title: "Custom Controller for Agones Game Servers"
linkTitle: "Custom Controller"
date:
publishDate:
description: >
  This Custom Controller example shows how to create, deploy and run a Custom Kubernetes Controller for Agones that logs changes to GameServers and modifies their labels.
---

## Prerequisite

To get started, ensure the following prerequisites are met:

  - You have a running Kubernetes cluster.
  
  - Agones is installed on your cluster. Refer [Agones guide](https://agones.dev/site/docs/installation/install-agones/).

  - (Optional) Review {{< ghlink href="examples/custom-controller" >}}Custom Controller code{{< /ghlink >}} to see the details of this example.

## Create a Custom Controller

Let's create a custom controller on your cluster using the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googleforgames/agones/{{< release-branch >}}/examples/custom-controller/deployment.yaml
```

When you run this command, it quickly sets up your controller by doing four things: 

>  - Creating a service account for secure communication with Kubernetes
>  - Defining a role with the right permissions to handle game servers and events
>  - Linking this role to the account for broad access
>  - Launching two controllers for reliability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Sets up the appropriate [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) permissions for the custom controller
 - Launching two controllers for reliability, with leader election setup between them.
```

## Verify the Controller

To ensure the custom controller is operational, execute the following command. You should see two instances of the controller actively running with the prefix `custom-controller`:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n agones-system
```

You should see a successful output similar to this:

```
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
custom-controller-74c798cfd8-ld6wk   1/1     Running   0          84s
custom-controller-74c798cfd8-whpp2   1/1     Running   0          84s
```

## Create a Fleet

Let's create a Fleet using the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googleforgames/agones/{{< release-branch >}}/examples/simple-game-server/fleet.yaml
```

You should see a successful output similar to this :

```
fleet.agones.dev/simple-game-server created
```

> This has created a Fleet record inside Kubernetes, which in turn creates two warm [GameServers]({{< ref "/docs/Reference/gameserver.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has created a Fleet record inside Kubernetes, which in turn creates two ready [GameServers]({{< ref "/docs/Reference/gameserver.md" >}})
```

```bash
kubectl get fleet
```
It should look something like this:

```
NAME                 SCHEDULING   DESIRED   CURRENT   ALLOCATED   READY     AGE
simple-game-server   Packed       2         3         0           2         9m
```

You can also see the GameServers that have been created by the Fleet by running `kubectl get gameservers`,
the GameServer will be prefixed by `simple-game-server`.

```
NAME                             STATE     ADDRESS            PORT   NODE      AGE
simple-game-server-llg4x-rx6rc   Ready     192.168.122.205    7752   minikube   9m
simple-game-server-llg4x-v6g2r   Ready     192.168.122.205    7623   minikube   9m
```

For the full details of the YAML file head to the [Fleet Specification Guide]({{< ref "/docs/Reference/fleet.md" >}})

{{< alert title="Note" color="info">}} The game servers deployed from a `Fleet` resource will be deployed in the same namespace. The above example omits specifying a namespace, which implies both the `Fleet` and the associated `GameServer` resources will be deployed to the `default` namespace. {{< /alert >}}

## Monitor the log events for the custom controller pod

> To monitor the log events of the custom controller pod during the creation, modification, and deletion of game servers, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor the logs of the custom controller during the creation, modification, and deletion of game servers, use the following command:
```

---
title: "Custom Controller for Agones Game Servers"
linkTitle: "Custom Controller"
date:
publishDate:
description: >
  This example shows how to deploy and run the Custom Controller example on Agones, a tool to monitor the running dedicated game servers on Kubernetes.
---

> 

Reviewer 2: There should be a brief sentence or two noting prerequisites (running cluster with Agones installed, etc.)

Author: prerequisite info is included now

Reviewer: Can we move prerequ's out of the page descriptor, and have it's own heading please? It going to look weird up there 😄

## Deploy the Custom Controller

> To get started, update the [deployment.yaml](https://github.com/googleforgames/agones/blob/main/examples/custom-controller/deployment.yaml) file to use your Docker image, then apply it to your cluster:

Author: I've made the changes as per your suggestion

> To get started, update the [deployment.yaml](https://github.com/googleforgames/agones/blob/main/examples/custom-controller/deployment.yaml) file to use your Docker image, then apply it to your cluster:

Author: If we include the information about the custom deployment, there is a possibility that it could impact the production environment due to build and push details?

## Verify the Controller

To ensure the custom controller is operational, execute the following command. You should see two instances of the controller actively running:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n agones-system
```

## Monitor the log events for the custom controller pod

To monitor the log events of the custom controller pod during the creation, modification, and deletion of game servers, use the following command:

```bash
kubectl logs -f <custom-controller-pod> -n agones-system
```

**Note**: If a custom controller runs into trouble with logging events, the backup controller will automatically assume the leadership role, ensuring uninterrupted logging of event details.

## Create a GameServer Instance

Create a gameserver using below command. After this, you'll be able to see logs about the server being created.

```bash
kubectl create -f <your-gameserver.yaml>

```

## Edit the GameServer

To edit settings of your game server, use:

```bash

> kubectl edit gameserver <simple-game-server-name> 

Author: Our requirement is to edit and delete the gameserver that we created. If we want to live edit the configuration of an existing GameServer directly within the cluster, we need to pass the gameserver name. Please correct me if I am wrong.

---
title: "Custom Controller for Agones Game Servers"
linkTitle: "Custom Controller"
date:
publishDate:
description: >

>   This Custom Controller example shows how to deploy and run the Custom Controller example on Agones, a tool to monitor the running dedicated game servers on Kubernetes. Prior to beginning, ensure the following prerequisites are met:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This Custom Controller example shows how to create, deploy and run a Custom Kubernetes Controller for Agones that logs changes to GameServers and modifies their labels.
```
